I found myself in a situation early in my career where I got
a notification that looked like a potential indicator of compromise.
An application system went offline and users couldn't access it for a few hours,
and then it came back up all of a sudden.
Now, could this be an event?
Could this be an incident? I had to explore?
So I had to think through possibilities and also do some research by looking through
logs and detection systems and more to figure out what might be going on.
Well, it turns out the system was offline for routine updates,
but some users just didn't see the email,
and because it's routine maintenance,
it's not an incident,
it's more of an event.
However, if in this example,
I found that it was degraded because it was being hit with fake traffic,
for example or there was
a sketchy process running that was eating up all of the CPU power,
that could be considered an incident.
So in summary, an indicator of compromise can help you distinguish
an event from an incident in order to
determine if you should activate your incident response plan.